# Project Proposal

## Dataset

For this project, we are interested in a dataset consisting of information about a range of horror movies. The original dataset was adopted from the [tidytuesday repo](https://github.com/rfordatascience/tidytuesday/tree/master/data/2022/2022-11-01). The link to access the data is [here](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rfordatascience/tidytuesday/master/data/2022/2022-11-01/horror_movies.csv).
   > A dataset about horror movies dating back to the 1950s. Data set was extracted from **[The Movie Database](https://www.themoviedb.org)** via the tmdb API using R <code>httr</code>. There are ~35K movie records in this dataset.
   

We will conduct inferential research with the dataset to determine the relationship between a horror movie's average rating and its revenue. Our population of interest will be the set of all horror movies with a non-zero revenue. The reason we add this non-zero revenue constraint is we are interested in comparing the median revenues of two subsets of the population (high/low rated), and in the raw dataset the vast majority of the movies have zero revenue. As such, the median revenue of both groups is equal to zero if the full dataset is used, and no interesting conclusions can be drawn. Therefore we will consider only the horror movies which have non-zero revenue.

In the dataset, each movie has an associated `vote_average` and `vote_count`. These represent each movie's average rating (on a scale of 1 to 10) together with the total number of votes that movie received to calculate its average rating (i.e. the `vote_count` column is the number of observations used to calculate the mean rating displayed in the `vote_average` column). We will be using the `vote_average` of each movie to classify it as either `'high'` rated or `'low'` rated, depending on whether its `vote_average` is greater than or less than the median `vote_average` of all horror movies with non-zero revenue. In the interest of accurate classification of a movie as being `'high'` or `'low'` rated, we will be discarding the entries in the dataset which have a `vote_count` of 10 or less.